# Visualization of Cars Dataset

This project focuses on generating a visualization dashboard for the cars dataset, which comprises 406 observations across 8 variables: **MPG** (miles per gallon), **number of cylinders**, **engine displacement** (cu. inches), **horsepower**, **vehicle weight** (lbs.), **time to accelerate** from 0 to 60 mph (sec.), **model year**, and **origin of the car** (1. American, 2. European, 3. Japanese).

## Prerequisites

- **Processing Programming Editor**: [Download from here](https://processing.org/)
- **Grafica Library for Processing**: Install using `Tools => Manage Tools => Library => Grafica` in the Processing Environment.
- **DataSet**: Ensure the **cars.csv** dataset file is in the same folder as **CarsGraphica.pde**.

## Implementing the Program

1. Open the **CarsGrafica.pde** file.
2. Click on the "Run" button.

## Data Preprocessing

Missing values are removed from the dataset.

## Setup

- Points for plots are generated by iterating through each row in the dataset.
- Columns are saved to vector arrays for later use in bar plots.
- Plot designs are created.

## Independent Functions

- **Thresholds**: Accepts an array (data column) and returns values required for drawing box plots (min, max, IQ1, IQ3, Median).
- **Outliers**: Returns outlier points for a given array as a **GPointsArray** object for plotting on the box plots.

## About Visualization

- For plots with colored categories, efforts have been made to ensure that the minority group is "visible" by adjusting color hue and transparency.
- **MPG** is represented as point size in the central lower plot. **MPG/2** is used as the metric for pixel size diameter.
- **Horsepower** is visualized in the left upper corner plot as point pixel size (metric is **horsepower/8**).
- **Acceleration** can be observed in one of the bar plots and central upper plot as point sizes. The metric is **(20-acceleration)*2**. This choice is made considering that users perceive a car to be "great at acceleration" if it takes a shorter time to accelerate. If acceleration is plotted as given, it might lead to a misleading perception where smaller values appear better.
